Similarities
Investigating the same things
Ritual sacrifice by the celestine dawn
Fought and killed an orc chieftain and found a letter from fazrahl saying to retrieve the amulet with an orb.
Used the orb and came to Limbo, took days to master their control without guidance

Start of session, as they travel to the guardian they feel a sensation of fracture (or something. basically fazrahl has done his ritual)

Somehow need to tell the group that the celestine dawn taking over parts of the government were for specific things like giving the go ahead to build the road (ritual circle that connects to the point of power). Maybe from Ermot, saying they should have paid more attention to what was happening.



Characters joining:


Characters leaving:
Okurak - 

Athkatla destroyed
- It appears as though weeks have passed.
- bodies piled up outside city walls burning.
- all plant life is dead and withered and the land itself is black and covered in distended red tendrils
- You see a burnt ground extending out of a newly build path around the city that looks like burnt ground and reminds you of what you saw at the ritual sacrifice leylines outside of verbobonc
- City in chaos, orcs patrolling streets and wretches huddling together in the streets
- Shifts looking wretches standing at street corners peddling stolen wares.
- Druids outside the city (the ones they encountered previously who attacked verbobonc but then were taken over by the good druid)?

Viscount says "Go to South Gate"

Phase 1 - South Gate Attack

Gate is closed
Animals climbing walls
Animals coming in through river
Groups of guards fighting groups of animals

Boars, bears, wolves, badgers, tigers

------------------------------------
1d10 guards killed - 10
1d10 animals killed - 4

Animals > Guards - skill check to help

Main stat DC15
3 passes

Fail and guards are killed - each player rolls their hit dice of damage to clear group
 
------------------------------------
2x Bulette

5k xp

https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/16818-bulette

---------------------------

1d10 guards killed
1d10 animals killed

Animals > Guards - skill check to help

Main stat DC15
3 passes

Fail and guards are killed - each player rolls their hit dice of damage to clear group

---------------------------

Coming from within the city approaches a shambling flesh golem headed straight for the party.

1x Flesh golem/wolf

15k xp

Stone Golem stats etc

https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/17025-stone-golem

On kill transform to Bear King

Description of change:
The form of the golem begins to shudder as the stress of the barrage of carnage on its flesh tries to overwhelm it. It hunches over and you hear cracking sounds as its body structure begins to change and take its new form. Thick, dark hair starts to sprout through the blood soaked heaps of mangled flesh that cover it and its face elongates into a large and more savage beastlike visage. The previously featureless expression of its face morphs briefly into a painful grimace as its body grows and the wirelike hair finishes sprouting. As it recovers and begins to stand up again, it lets out a bloodcurdling deep roar that reaches into the depths of your minds.

https://www.5esrd.com/database/creature/bear-king-3pp/

Saves: Str +9, Dex +4, Wis +7

The golem has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects.

Damage Resistance: 
Cold

Damage Immunities: 
Poison, 
Psychic; 
Lightning
Bludgeoning, Piercing, and Slashing from Nonmagical Attacks that aren't Adamantine

Condition Immunities: 
Charmed, 
Exhaustion, 
Frightened, 
Paralyzed, 
Petrified, 
Poisoned

2x Claws
1x Bite

Bite: 1d10 + 5 piercing damage +9 to hit. 
DC 17 Constitution saving throw at the start of each of its turns or lose 10 (3d6) hit points from blood loss. Each successive bite, the hit point loss increases by 10 (3d6). 
DC 12 Wisdom (Medicine) or heal to stop bleeding.
DC14 constitution or lycanthropy.

Claws: Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) slashing damage.

Legendary Resistance (3/day). If the Bear King fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead.

Regeneration (Alternate Form only). The Bear King regains 10 hit points at the start of his turn if he has at least 1 hit point.

Legendary Actions (end of a creatures turn, 3x):
Melee Attack. The Bear King makes a claw or maul attack.
Frightful Roar (2 actions). The Bear King lets out a bloodcurdling roar. All creatures within 90 feet who can hear the Bear King must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened for 1 minute. A creature that makes its save, or who the effect ends for, is immune to the Frightful Roar for 24 hours. The bear king’s allies are unaffected.

---------------------------​

1d10 guards killed
1d10 animals killed

Animals > Guards - skill check to help

Main stat DC15
3 passes

Fail and guards are killed - each player rolls their hit dice of damage to clear group

---------------------------

Phase 2 - Defend the City

Viscount calls heroes to emergency meeting

'The city is under attack, the Druid Legion sent the animals as a first wave to test and stress our defences. They are currently surrounding the city and we are under siege. Verbobonc calls upon its greatest heroes to give aid to the city. We need to prepare the city for battle in whatever way we can. If any of you has any kind of skills that can help, please use them to our advantage!'

Each player can do a skill check based on a way to help or prepare the city for invasion, siege and/or battle. This can include defence strategies, setting up defences.

Fortification skill checks
Arcana – Strategise on magic that can be used to slow or damage the enemy army
Athletics – Physically build and move defensive bulwarks into place
Deception – Make the defenses appear even more formidable than they already are
Insight – Set up internal defenses based on strategic benefit if/when the enemy gets inside
Investigation – Search for and shut down sneaky enemy tactics and tricks
Medicine – Get the most out of medical supplies and ready hospital resources for the wounded
Perception – Observe enemy scouts to defend against hidden attacking positions
Performance – Keep up the morale of everyone in the temple with stories of glory and victory against the odds
Religion – Appeal to Ioun and any other gods who may lend their divine favor in the coming fight
Stealth – Get as close as possible to enemy units to spy on their battle plans
Survival – Optimize food, water, and sleeping quarters to keep everyone rested and ready

Success - DC10, +1 success for every 5 points over 10.

1k xp for each success

+0
-1
+1
+0
+2

Arabella

When done: "Thank you friends, it appears as though happiness does not last for long in these trying times, but it is good to know we can rely on heroes such as yourselves. We have procured some of the magical items from some of the city establishments to help us defend. We will need to return it once it is over but take this weapon to help you. It is a rapier of life stealing and will need to be attuned, so ensure you do so before the morning."

Reward: Rapier of Lifestealing

-----------------------------------------
Sleep

Day 2

Just as the rays of the morning sun breaks over the horizon, the calm morning is broken by the horns of war. Shouts on the wall confirm what you all already know. Enemy troops are on the move and the city is under assault.

Arabella enters the room and rouses the party.

> 5 successes: “Thank you for everything you've already done to get us ready for battle. Our defenses are much stronger because of your hard work and if we survive this, we won't forget what you have done."

"Take these potions to help you, then grab your gear and take up positions. The enemy is on the move. It's going to be a rough day.”

2x Potion of Superior Healing
3x Potion of Greater Healing
1x Potion of Invulnerability

Just as she says it, the room shakes with the deep boom of the first ram against the gates. As you rush out into the courtyard, you see guards along the walls shouting and engaging unseen enemies outside. Other guards are tending to the gates to keep it reinforced and defended for as long as possible. 

Now, you must help keep the gates shut and repel the enemy for as long as possible.

Any ability score paired with any skill or tool proficiency they wish, but a character cannot use the same ability score or proficiency two turns in a row. 

Each character must take a turn before any character may go a second time. The DC of this ability check starts at 24 but is decreased by 1 for each success the party earned in the previous challenge. Additionally, at the start of every turn after the first, the DC increases by 1 as the invasion increases in intensity.

19

1 fail
1 fail
1 pass
1 fail
1 fail

Group must make 3 successful ability checks before 3 failures. 

If your players seem stuck or can’t think of a good action to take during this skill challenge, you can suggest some course of action, and figure out what a good ability score and proficiency combination would be. A character who wants to make a Strength (Athletics) check could reinforce the gate. A character who wants to make a Wisdom (Perception) or Intelligence (Investigation) check could help direct troops to the areas of greatest need.

--------------------------------------------------------
- Success: Hold the line!
The gates of the city have held and  the forces on the wall have weathered the storm of the assault, albeit with some losses. The enemy falls back out of range to decide what to do next.
Ratan finds the party and gives an update. The defenders were able to destroy at least half the enemy forces.

The party has used 4x level 1, 3x level 2, and 1x level three spell slots. The party is free to distribute this burden among themselves as they see fit.
7.5k xp


---------------

- Failure: There are too many of them!
The casualties among the defenders are much heavier than expected and the gates finally give way to the overwhelming assault. Goblins, druids and animals pour in through the gates and the Verbobonc army takes position to fight, the guards on the wall abandoning their positions to take up melee combat in the yard below.
A pitched battle ensues, and the outcome is not at all clear right now. 

The party has suffered 80 damage and has used  5x level 1, 4x level 2, 2x level three spell slots, and 1x level 4 slots.

Okurak has used 1x Wrath of the Storm and 1x Channel Divinity
Pamykos has used Accursed Specter
Sirrush has used Breath Weapon
Pyre has used 2x Sorcery Points
Gideon has used 10 Lay on Hands points
---------------------------------------------------------

7.5k xp

---------------------------------------------------------

Phase 3 - Push Back

Ratan appears and informs the group they have a prisoner, a druid who submitted herself willingly, wishing to speak with the Viscount. She has been interrogated and speaks of meeting a group of adventurers lately whilst investigating the Ritual Circle to the north east, could it be the druid you spoke of? She said her name is Ayana Aralen.

Lead before the river to her.

"Will break away to talk when possible, Ayella insane, i have a plan, cannot stop invasion yet"

"Ah! You are those of whom I spoke of, tell them! I am here of my own volition and wish to talk!

My brother spoke out against the invasion and Mother Ayella's actions. She took him as prisoner and murdered his familiar Yonho when he tried to protect him. She has lost her mind with vengeance but anyone that speaks out against her is labelled a traitor to the cause. I hate your kind for what you do to our homes, but this onslaught of death and corruption is turning us into the very thing which we fight again, there has to be another way. 

If you win today, the battle may be over, but she will continue to return. If you kill her, one of her closest lieutenants will take her place. The only solution is a change in leadership. Mother Ayella has loyal followers but there are others who have become disconcerted with what we have been asked to do. There are those of us who have learned of her use of the undead, a disgusting abomination against all that we stand for! This MUST stop!

I know not whether what I am about to ask of you indeed does make me a traitor, and the thought of more of my brothers, sisters and companions falling by your hand sickens me, but I fear there is no other choice...

No doubt she has orders to capture and imprison me on sight but if you clear a path to where she is situated and get me past her lieutenants, she will have no choice but to hear me and concede to my challenge. I shall invoke "Han-Turaan" and challenge her in single combat for control of the clan. As new Mother to the clan, I can put a stop to this madness, and then perhaps we can speak of terms for peace if it is not too late for such things."

---------------------------------------------------------

Ratan and Arabella want to attack
Viscount and General Ealin want to hold and fortify the city
Some other leaders of churches and nobles present?

If attack - Provide a protection squad of 30 guards

Ayana's plan:

Flank enemy
Start with 30 guards
Each round lose 8 - success
I.e dc 15 is - 1. Dc 20 is -2. Per person.

Saves:
Dc10 save
Dc15 1 success
Dc20 2 successes
Dc25 3 successes

Mother Ayella is 500ft away from the first skill challenge

Each 100ft skill challenge

Lose Guards each round equal to 8 - no of extra successes per task

Success: DC10, +1 success for every 5 points over 10.
Fail: +1 fail point

30
Fail: 6
Success: 25
23

1 - Arrows
Success: Acrobatics or 1d8

2 - Entangle and arrows
Str save or 1d8

3 - Fog
Perception check or 1d8

4 - Treants (close to forest)
Main stat save
Fail lose lvl 1 slot
Fail <5 lose another lvl 2 slot

5 - Columns of fire
Dex save or 1d8 dmg
Ayella retreats over the bow of the hill on her great elk stag mount

6  - Wall of suffocating
Con save or 1d10 damage

Druid Guards Battle
Fight with druid guards - battle guards
If >10 allied guards left, enemy guards surrender
If 10 or less fight. Group takes 16 - no guards x d8 damage. Lose same no spell slots / 2.

---------------------------------------------------------

In shackles not far from where Ayana was standing is Ayana's brother and 2 other druid prisoners.

"Oh Ayana, I never thought I would see you again! But why is it you stand with our enemies?" 

Ayana looks to him and lays her hands on his shoulders and says "we both know this has to end, I work with them to ensure our future, and the future of the natural world. There is no time to explain, just trust me!"

He looks to be lost in some internal battle for a moment before coming to his senses and a look of panic replaces the confusion that was there only moments ago. "Please, there is no time, Mother Ayella has lost her mind, you must retreat back into the city, it is not safe here! She has made a deal with Tazanak'thor, terror of… "

And before he can complete the sentence, a mighty shriek rips through the air and you hear the beating of great wings. As you gaze in horror towards the source of the sound, you see the the silhouette of a huge winged beast that momentarily blocks out the sun, and atop its back a solitary rider, who you can only assume must be Mother Ayella.

The dragon glides overhead towards the city and lets out a roaring gout of flames directed inside the gates. You hear screams and the sound of splintering wood and stone in the distance and can only imagine what the carnage that is happening beyond.

One of the guards look towards you with terror in his eyes and exclaims "we must go back and help them!"

Ayana looks to you and says "I stand with you!"
The others stand proud and ready and say "and we are with Ayana"

Reward:
Wand of Farstriking
Triple a spell distance
3 charges. 
Disintegrates when out of charges

7.5k xp

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Phase 4 - Defeat the Dragon

As you move towards the city, you hear more carnage and explosions. Stone and pieces of timber rain upwards in an arc as the dragon disappears in and out of the city. The sounds of magical explosions in the distance echo throughout the area. As you re-enter the city, you see Karthanor and defenders on the wall attempting to stop the dragon. 

The dragon bursts through one of the walls, destroying the top half along with the defenders and ballistas.

The other side of the wall is singed and blasted apart and the guards are dead. Karthanor looks heavily injured and shouts "mount the ballista, we must bring it down! There should be nets, then we will be able to fight it from ground level!"

From atop the wall you see magical energies exploding around the other side of the city along with the destruction the dragon has caused. Several buildings lie in complete ruin, bodies are strewn everywhere, and to your horror... the bridgewalk tavern is among those reduced to rubble.

-----------------------------------------
Bring the Dragon Down

Roll initiative
All DC12+

Int to perceive path of dragon
Cha to coordinate and instruct
2x Str to load in time
Dex to aim and release

>20 and you can give roll to aid to give advantage on another check (Once only)

Each fail group takes 8d8 fire dmg spread out and -1 bird survives?
Dragon then proceeds to destroy a part of the city.

On success

The great beast tumbles out of the sky, crashing into nearby buildings and reducing them to rubble. Karthanor continues to cast as it climbs to its feet and releases a frigid globe of ice energy at it. As it shakes off the blow, wings still entangled, it locks on to karthanor, crushing soldiers and civilians into the ground as it charges towards him. Before he manages to utter the last few syllables of his spell, the dragon reaches him and slashes with his razor sharp claws, spilling his guts and cutting his words short. As the surrounding guards and citizens watch on in shock, the dragon rises up above him, picks Karthenor up in its mouth and vigorously shakes its head back and forth in a horrifying display of savagery, as karthanors legs and head detach from his body in a spray of blood and gore.

The dragon turns its massive body, now facing the group as your new druid companions run to you, ready to lend their aid.

It lowers its head slightly to give way to the form of an elegant but fierce looking elf, dressed in a stylish but natural attire befitting that of a druid queen. 

So, you would turn against your own kind Ayana? So disappointing. Still, I can't say I am surprised after your brothers betrayal! It seems I have been far too lenient on you. Nevermind, I shall not make the same mistake again. I will save you for last to make an example of.

And before Ayana has a chance to respond, a burst of electric energy leaps forth from Ayellas staff, and a sphere of magical energy encloses ayella. She attempts speak and move forward but is knocked back by the swirling ball of energy that holds her, and not a sound is heard from the outside. As you turn back to the ayella and the dragon, it rises back up, obscuring your view of her and lets of an ear piercing roar as it readies for battle.

1x Dragon
1x Healer Druid

https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/16771-adult-red-dragon

Players can take up to 1d8+4, 1d8+4, 2d8+4 healing per round at the start of their turns from druids
Dragon breath takes out 2 druids. Brother remains giving 2d8 +4 per round
2nd dragon breath or direct attack kills brother.

Saves: Str +8, Dex +0, Con +13, Wis +1, Cha +11

Damage Immunities: 
Fire

Frightful Presence
2x Claws
1x Bite

Bite: 2d10 + 8 piercing damage + 2d6 fire. +14 hit. 
DC 17 Constitution saving throw at the start of each of its turns or lose 10 (3d6) hit points from blood loss. Each successive bite, the hit point loss increases by 10 (3d6). 
DC 12 Wisdom (Medicine) or heal to stop bleeding.
DC14 constitution or lycanthropy.

Claws: Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) slashing damage.

Legendary Resistance (3/day). If the Bear King fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead.

Regeneration (Alternate Form only). The Bear King regains 10 hit points at the start of his turn if he has at least 1 hit point.

Legendary Actions (end of a creatures turn, 3x):
Tail Attack. The dragon makes a tail attack.
Wing Attack (Costs 2 Actions). The dragon beats its 
wings. Each creature within 10 feet of the dragon must succeed on a DC 
22 Dexterity saving throw or take 15 (2d6 + 8) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone. The dragon can then fly up to half its flying speed.

21k xp

On the final blow of the dragon, old bum jumps in front of its final attack taking a fatal hit, Ayella is thrown clear and the sphere around ayana breaks. 

Phase 5 - Han Turaan

If brother is dead, ayana goes to him, anger and tears brimming in her eyes.

"You dare, insect!?" she begins to exclaim as energy crackles from her fingertips and she stands and strides towards you all.

Before she has the chance to finish her spell, ayella cries "Enough Ayana! I invoke Han-Turaan for leadership of the Legion!", and the energy fades away as ayana begins to laugh.

"You invoke Han-Turaan!?" she laughs. Very well, this is as good a way as any to make an example of you." She turns to the group and says "I will call off the attack temporarily to honor the ceremony and be rid of you before i continue the decimation of this pitiful city. We shall create the ritual circle just outside of these city gates. Interference from anyone will result in an immediate end to the ritual and execution of the challenger. Do you Ayella of the Crescent Moon, daughter of Artuur submit to these terms?

I do, replies Ayella with resolute determination in her eyes.

She turns to the group and asks "are these terms agreeable to you?"

She turns back to ayella and says
"Representatives of your new clan may be present to spectate your failure. They shall not be harmed until the ritual is complete and they have left the hallowed ritual grounds"

She clasps a horn attached around her neck and blows, releasing a deep and powerful tone. The sound of fighting ceases and Verboboncs forces begin to retreat back to within the safety of the city limits

Very well then, we meet at dawn tomorrow, and she turns to leave.

When she was thrown from the dragon she lost a belt.

Rewards:
Belt of Hill Giant Strength

--------------------------------------------------------------------
Ratan and Arabella emerge from the North area of the city.

"Thank the heavens you were able to defeat this great beast! The North was under heavy attack and were we not there to repel their forces, we would surely have been overrun!"

One of the soldiers runs up to Ratan and says "My Lord, General Ealin is nowhere to be found and the Viscount was killed in the attack. What are your orders?"

Ratan looks confused for a moment and Arabella turns to him - "You are the highest acting council member left... leadership of the city now falls to you my love".

His expression becomes more resolute as he understands his duty.

Ritual

3 elderly druids dressed in colourful garments stand near the centre of a large circle made up of druids.
Ayella and ayana enter the circle and kneel before them.
The first says "I Torbin, eyes of the three bear witness to the sacred challenge of Han-Turaan".
The second continues, "I Yara, wisdom of the three bear witness to the honourable ceremony of the Han-Turaan". The final druid steps forward and finishes "I Wartan, ears of the three bear witness to the undeniable rite of the Han-Turaan".

The 3 step back into the perimeter of the circle and ayella and ayana move into position, waiting in anticipation. The 3 raise their staves into the air and as one shout "Let the Han-Turaan commence!" while slamming their staves into the ground.

The druids around the circle begin to chant Han-Turaan and tighten the circle, hammering their staves into the ground in time with the chant, and in an instant ayella morphs into a great tiger and ayana into a vicious looking tusked boar, and they charge at each other. 

Exchange viscous blows, taking slashes and puncture wounds from tusks, teeth and claws. They begin to slow as their animal forms tire and weaken. 
Turn back to humanoid form but too strong, slams her down into ground repeatedly.

When too weak to rise again, "blah blah".

When back turned, rises into the air, eyes turning green, hair flowing out and skin glowing radiant energy.
"Ayella, leader of the Crescent Moon, with the divine energy of the Earthmother, keeper of the wild, I reclaim that which has been given freely yet abused. You have lost your way and let vengeance guide you, against the creatures of this land and your once peaceful nature."

Ayella turns back with a look of confusion for a moment, before returning to anger and thrusts an arm out, casting an array of pulsating magic at Ayana, which deflects away from her as if by an invisible barrier.

Ayana looks unperturbed by the assault and continues "You have lost yourself to the darkness and if left to your ways would bring ruin to your people and to that which you claim to protect. I absolve you of any further responsibility and cast you out. Perhaps in time you may regain my favour and serve me once again. Go now in peace."

Ayana puts 1 hand out and a stream of green and yellow energy pours out of ayellas skin and into ayanas hand, causing her ethereal glow to pulsate in waves.

A look of bewildered puzzlement crosses ayellas features and where once stood a radiant and confident figure now sat a husk of a woman covered in blood and dirt. The look of confusion gradually becomes replaced by anger once again, and she scrambles to her feet with arms out in front as if to cast a spell and speaks an incantation but nothing happens.
A momentary flash of confusion once again embellishes her features before rage boils out and she launches herself at ayana.

Time seems to slow down for a moment and at the split second before making contact, ayanas hand shoots up in a smooth but impossibly fast motion, one finger outstretched, and as ayana moves the last few inches before making contact, her eyes widen with recognition and regret. As the finger makes contact with her forehead, a flat and circular light blue shockwave explodes outwards momentarily before she closes her eyes in surrender and dissolves into a swirling fibbonachi pattern of energy that continues to spiral outwards past the unwavering form of ayana and into the air, reforming itself as it travels into ever changing images of nature, before disappearing.

The druids standing witness to the glowing avatar of their goddess fall to their knees in awe and submission, their heads bowed.

Ayana turns to you, and you feel an overwhelming presence of power and love radiating out from her.

She begins to speak "and to you, the brave souls who offer mercy where others may take advantage, and offer aid where many would take the easy path, I offer you a gift and a boon, an exchange of energy from that which has been returned to the source if you will."

She raises her arm up, and at the end of her hand forms an open tome, shrouded in slightly glowing light, with blank pages turning as they fill up with text.

Reward: Tome of Rebalancing

"As a gift, I offer you hidden knowledge lost to the mortal planes. Study this tome well and learn of the ever changing nature of reality, such that you may impart change upon yourself. Now as a boon, what would you ask of me?"

// Request from party

Ayana turns to ..., arm outstretched and a sudden flash of blinding yellow light flashes out from her open hand followed by an overwhelming sensation of pleasure, briefly painful in its all encompassing intensity. As suddenly as it appeared, it is gone.

Old Bum begins to stir, his eyes opening slowly. "It was beautiful... there was a long tunnel... and, and the most wonderful glowing turnip my eyes have ever seen! I was going towards the turnip and I nearly had it! Then I don't know what happened, am I dead?

"You've given me the family I never had, and I didn't want to lose any of you."

"It is done, and before I depart I offer a word of warning. For reasons that are far too complex for you to comprehend i may not interfere any more than i already have, lest i upset the balance of the realms. The path you follow leads you into terrible danger. The one you chase called Fazrahl seeks to recover a weapon powerful enough to kill a god and he must be stopped from doing so. The first part of three lies hidden in the depths of a realm where darkness rules and sunlight never touches. I can say no more than this. Be not afraid to embrace all that comes to pass and trust within each other, for you can only succeed undivided."

Ayana lowers back down to the ground, and although the flowing graceful energy had left her body, she still seems imbued with an overabundance of vitality.

The three druids step forward, staffs raised and cry "all hail ayana, daughter of Artuur, leader of the clans, mother to the Legion and chosen of Chauntea. All of the Druids follow suit and slam their staves to the floor in unison.

Ayana raises her own staff into the air and says "now let us put an end to this suffering, regain our footing and return to the path that we were born to walk upon. Yet let us not forget the sacrifices we have made and the reason we lost our way to begin with!"

Ayana turns to you and continues "brave souls of faerun, wanderers of justice, you shall forever have our ears and be welcome in our lands. I now implore you one more task, to help broker a peace between the druid Legion of the Crescent Moon and the council of faerun. Will you accept this responsibility? I can think of no others I could trust to represent the interests of both realms.

// Input from party

Ratan says "as a leader of one of the principle cities of faerun, and that which has been at the forefront of this conflict, any deal that is striken between us and the druid legion shall stand, i pledge my honor upon it and swear to it."

"Very well, i understand that this era of growth and technology places more demand upon the land, but if we plunder the land and take more than she can provide, it will cause the downfall of us all."

I agree says Ratan, what do you suggest?

Terms for the cessation

Druids
Reimbursement for dead animals and forests in terms of produce and gold
Stop cutting forests down
Stop overfarming the land
Can offer techniques and magic to help revitalise the land

Faerun
Reimbursement for death, damage to city and interruption to trade
Druids to return to snakewood forest and sign a peace treaty
Can offer food

Anger from both sides.
Ayana says ayellas methods and insults against nature were an abomination, but that she has no problem continuing to fight for the natural order to be returned, in line with nature.

Persuasion or intimidation checks to convince either side.

Once agreed, a pact under oath in the name of Chauntea, or should she strike me down in retribution.

"I Mother Ayana, daughter of Artuur, leader of the Legion of the Crescent Moon and all of its clans, do declare I shall act in accordance with the conditions set here today, and make a pact with the Council of Faerun under oath in the name of Chauntea, should she strike me down in retribution if I act against my word."

"And I Ratan the First, acting leader of Verbobonc and in full authority to act on behalf of the council of Faerun, do declare I shall act in accordance with the conditions set here today, and make a pact with the Druid Legion of the Crescent Moon under oath in the name of Chauntea, should she strike me down in retribution if I act against my word."

Ayana turns to the group and says "and what will you do now?"

"blah blah"

"I wish you luck on your noble cause. There is a power point north east of Athkatla, if this is where you are headed I fear it is also at risk of corruption. We have not sensed any disturbance from there as of yet however, but we will send some of our Druids to protect the area."

Ratan says "Again, Verbobonc cannot thank you enough for your continued service to the city. We are unable to offer a reward as i'm sure you can understand, but... ". He and Arabella exchange a glance and she nods - As a small token of our appreciation, we would like for you to keep the weapon that was loaned to you in order to defend the city. It is the least we can do. Big Weapons was destroyed in the attack but if Bigruk ever emerges we will make it right with him."

"Now, there is also the matter of your groups possession problem", and his eyes widen as he says "the adventurer's guild!"

"It is intact sire!" a nearby soldier reports. "Thank goodness!" The soldier continues - "I have received a report of the severely damaged establishments" and he hands over a list. As he and Arabella look at the list, her face darkens - "no... the temple!" Ratan shares the list with the group and it includes...

"There is much to be done to rebuild and i'm sure reparations will be going on for quite some time, but the city and I owe you a great debt. I say we recuperate our energies today and meet outside of the city tomorrow - should anything go wrong I dread to think what we may unleash upon this city, it has suffered enough."

10k xp

Destroyed buildings
South wall
Bridgewalk tavern Y
Big Weapons Y
Laughing Rogue Hostel
Hamstid's Horse Stables
Monastery of Rao
Season's End Inn
Temple of Blinding Light (Helm)
Burbleberry's Brewery

There is a point of power north east of athkatla



-------------

Jizz'rek Items

Ring of Quiptical Hits 
https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/11298-ring-of-quiptical-hits
Two interlocking bands, one gold engraved with a motifs of laughing faces and the other granite with a motif of faces set in stony silence, the ring rewards the witty but punishes japes that fall flat. 
Once per day, on a successful attack roll, if the wearer can deliver a one-liner, quip or appropriate pun before rolling damage, the attack is converted into a critical hit. However, if the jape is deemed to have fallen flat the wearer is overcome by lethargy and behaves as if affected by the spell slow, until the end of it's next turn. 

Masochist’s shield
Screams for more when hit.

Shield of Protection
Whenever the shield would take a hit, it moves so the wielder protects it from the incoming attack.

Potion of thirst quenching

Torch of Darkvision
Grants the holder 40ft darkvision when lit.

Moustache Monacle
A monocle that makes you grow a mustache automatically upon putting it on. The longer it stays on, the longer it grows. You can roll 1D6 to decide what color it grows in as.

Compass of Detect Magic
Detects the nearest magical item. (Compass constantly spins cause it’s the closest magical item)

Ring of Time Travel
Only travels forward at a rate of 1 second per second

Bracers of Reversed Fortune
- When you roll a 1, treat it as a 20
- When you roll a 20, treat it as a 1
- All other rolls unchanged

Ring of Momentum
- Each consecutive spell or physical hit against same target adds +1 damage
- Missing resets the counter
- Changing targets resets the counter
- The enemies attacks do the same to you

Boots of flying
You gain flying movement at your movement speed, but it is only 1cm off the ground. If you fall it takes 100% of your movement speed to stand back up.

Staff of Semi-Plenty
- When casting a spell, 50% chance to not consume spell slot
- But 50% chance to use additional slot
- Roll before casting. Must have 2 spell slots available to cast at that level.

Amulet of Anticipated Pain
- Use a reaction to store up to 50 damage from 1 spell attack
- The damage is released into you 1 round later (or as soon as you try to take the amulet off).

Ring of Sharing
- When targeted by beneficial spell, half of the effect is transferred to the nearest creature
- Both get 50% effectiveness
- Works with healing, buffs

Bracers of Hatred
On a long rest you can choose a target creature/race to be your sworn enemy. Every time you hit with an attack this creature/race takes an automatic crit. However, the hatred is contagious and causes the enemy to go into a rage and have the same effect on you and your party.

Ring of Power Borrowing
- Cast any spell you've been hit with in last 24 hours
- Uses your spell slots
- Requires same level slot as original

Helm of Awareness
- Know weakness of any creature you damage
- All creatures know the whole parties weaknesses